#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{pdfpages}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Correlations between slope 1 and slope 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Background (refresher)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our research is concerned with diversity rate-of-change measurement.
 The technique used was to fit two-piecewise linear approximations to diversity
 data, and then use the slope (gradient) of the first line as a measure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Current investigations are concerned with the potential uses of the slope
 of the second line.
 Initial results seemed to indicate that the second line's slope is more
 or less inversely related to that of the first: relatively steep slopes
 in the first line appeared to go with relatively shallow slopes in the
 second.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
This investigation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this investigation, correlations between the slopes of the first and
 seconds lines were calculated.
 The process was as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
I gathered the same data used in the ANTS paper (well, I re-ran the simulations).
 For each combination of all functions and all algorithms, 30 samples were
 run and diversity measurements captured at every 10th iteration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
For each simulation - that is, every single sample - PWLAs were fit and
 the values of slope 1 and slope 2 were taken.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
using the R command: cor(X, Y, method=
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

pearson
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

)
\end_layout

\end_inset

 for each function/algorithm pair, using the slope 1 value of each sample
 as one population, and the slope 2 value of each sample as the other.
 This gave us a matrix of coefficients, with one coefficient per algorithm/popul
ation pair.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Means and standard deviations were calculated for each row and for each
 column of the resulting matrix (from above), as well as for the entire
 matrix.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Results
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Results are shown in the table below.
 Cells show the Pearson correlation coefficient for each function/algorithm
 pair, with functions running along rows, and algorithms running along columns.
 Additional rows show the mean and standard deviation of each column, and
 vice versa.
 The final two rows show the mean and SD over the entire matrix (except
 special rows and columns).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Notes/Questions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As noted, correlations were calculated per algorithm/function pair, using
 all samples as populations.
 Is it advisable to use data from all algorithms per function as populations
 when calculating averages per function, rather than simply calculating
 means on the previously calculated correlations? I.e., instead of saying
 the mean correlation for Ackley is the mean of the correlations for BareBones
 on Ackley, and for Gbest on Ackley, and so on; should I rather look at
 all the slope data for each algorithm on Ackley as the populations in the
 correlation calculation?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
includepdf[pages={-}, landscape=true]{AllCors.pdf}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
